➖➖➖➖➖ Cryptography: Encryption vs. Hashing ➖➖➖➖➖

➖ Encryption (Two-Way):
Encryption is a lockbox. You take the string "password123", lock it using a secret Key, and it becomes "xj9!2nL". If you have the Key, you can unlock it and get "password123" back.
=> Rule: Never encrypt passwords. If a hacker steals your database, they will also steal the server where the Key is stored, and unlock every password.

➖ Hashing (One-Way):
Hashing is a meat grinder. You throw "password123" into a complex mathematical algorithm, and it grinds it down into a 60-character scrambled string like $2a$10$X8....
➖ The Physics: It is mathematically impossible to reverse this process. Even if you have the world's most powerful supercomputer, you cannot put the hamburger back.

So how do we log the user in?
When the user tries to log in tomorrow, they type "password123" again. We put that attempt through the exact same meat grinder. If the resulting 60-character hash perfectly matches the hash stored in the database, we know they typed the correct password. We never need to know what the original password actually was.

➖➖ Step 1: The Anatomy of Bcrypt and "The Salt"

install the library: npm install bcryptjs

Note: We use bcryptjs (pure JavaScript) instead of bcrypt (C++) because it prevents cross-platform C++ compilation errors when deploying to different server environments like AWS or Vercel.

Bcrypt does not just hash the password. It adds a Salt.
If two users both have the password "password123", a standard hash would produce the exact same scrambled string. A hacker could use a "Rainbow Table" (a giant list of pre-calculated hashes) to figure it out.
Bcrypt solves this by generating a random 10-character string (the "Salt") and injecting it into the password before grinding it. Now, even if a million users use "password123", every single hash in your database will look completely unique.

➖➖➖ Step 2: The Mongoose Interceptor (pre('save'))

We could hash the password inside the userController.js before calling User.create() but Enterprise Architecture dictates that a Model should be responsible for its own data.
What if an Admin creates a user from a completely different controller? You would have to remember to write the hashing logic twice.

Instead, we attach it directly to the Blueprint (Schema). We use a Mongoose Document Middleware called pre('save').

This acts as a physical checkpoint.
-> User.create() is called.
-> Mongoose perfectly validates the data against the Schema.
-> The pre('save') checkpoint activates. We pause the V8 engine, hash the password, and swap out the plain text for the hash.
-> The database TCP socket fires.

Step 3: Fortifying the Schema (User.js)
password: {
      type: String,
      required: [true, 'Please provide a password'],
      minlength: [8, 'Password must be at least 8 characters'],
      select: false // 🚨 ENTERPRISE SECURITY: Never return this field in standard database queries!
    },


